1. “All good things are wild and free.”

2. “Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you’ve imagined.”

3. “It’s not what you look at that matters, it’s what you see.”

4. “Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it.”

5. “Life isn’t about finding yourself; it’s about creating yourself. So live the life you imagined.”

6. “Never look back unless you are planning to go that way.”

7. “Our life is frittered away by detail. Simplify, simplify.”

8. “Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth.”

9. “Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.”

10. “This world is but a canvas for our imagination.”

11. “As a single footstep will not make a path on the earth, so a single thought will not make a pathway in the mind. To make a deep physical path, we walk again and again. To make a deep mental path, we must think over and over the kind of thoughts we wish to dominate our lives.”

12. “You must live in the present, launch yourself on every wave, find your eternity in each moment. Fools stand on their island of opportunities and look toward another land. There is no other land; there is no other life but this.”

13. “I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.”

14. “You cannot dream yourself into a character: you must hammer and forge yourself into one.”

15. “If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.”

16. “The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it.”

17. “How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.”

18. “What lies behind us and what lies ahead of us are tiny matters compared to what lives within us.”

19. “I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.”

20. “We are constantly invited to be who we are.”

21. “Goodness is the only investment that never fails.”

22. “Think for yourself, or others will think for you without thinking of you.”

23. “We are born as innocents. We are polluted by advice.”

24. “A truly good book teaches me better than to read it. I must soon lay it down, and commence living on its hint. What I began by reading, I must finish by acting.”

25. “Not till we are lost, in other words not till we have lost the world, do we begin to find ourselves, and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our relations.”

26. “That man is the richest whose pleasures are the cheapest.”

27. “The path of least resistance leads to crooked rivers and crooked men.”

28. “An early-morning walk is a blessing for the whole day.”

29. “If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away.”

30. “Not until we are lost do we begin to understand ourselves.”

31. “I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude.”

32. “Enthusiasm is a supernatural serenity.”

33. “In the long run, men hit only what they aim at. Therefore, they had better aim at something high.”

34. “It is not enough to be busy. So are the ants. The question is: What are we busy about?”

35. “A lake is a landscape's most beautiful and expressive feature. It is Earth's eye; looking into which the beholder measures the depth of his own nature.”

36. “Thought is the sculptor who can create the person you want to be.”

37. “There is no remedy for love, but to love more.”

38. “The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation.”

39. “Read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read them at all.”

40. “My greatest skill in life has been to want but little.”

41. “Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.”

42. “What's the use of a fine house if you haven't got a tolerable planet to put it on?”

43. “I make myself rich by making my wants few.”

44. “Write while the heat is in you. The writer who postpones the recording of his thoughts uses an iron which has cooled to burn a hole with. He cannot inflame the minds of his audience.”

45. “A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone.”

46. “The cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run.”

47. “The heart is forever inexperienced.”

48. “Simplify, simplify, simplify.”

49. “Dreams are the touchstones of our characters.”

50. “Do not hire a man who does your work for money, but hire him who does it for love of it.”